docs/index.md, before:

# GCE Sustainable Code & Data Handbook

Practical guidance for sustainable research code and FAIR, reusable data in the GCE community.

- Read online: https://globalchangeecology.github.io/gce-sustainable-code-and-data-handbook/
- Source on GitHub: https://github.com/GlobalChangeEcology/gce-sustainable-code-and-data-handbook


<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   :material-compass-outline: **Start Here**
    
    ---
    Quick orientation for newcomers to the handbook.
    
    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Open Start Here](START_HERE.md)

-   :material-flowchart: **Decision Guide**
    
    ---
    Flowchart to choose tools, pipelines, and repositories.
    
    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Open Decision Guide](DECISION_GUIDE.md)

-   :material-notebook-edit: **Handbook**
    
    ---
    Full chapters covering policy, metadata, quality, publishing, and more.
    
    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Browse Handbook](manual/01_POLICY_AND_PRINCIPLES.md)

-   :material-flask-outline: **Examples**
    
    ---
    Minimal project with tiny CSV and Python/R scripts.
    
    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: See Example](examples/minimal-project/README.md)

</div>

## Start here
- Policy & Principles → goals, scope, roles
- Project Setup → folders, naming, onboarding checklist
- Software Practices → version control, tests, docs, environments
- Data Lifecycle → collection → cleaning → analysis → publication
- Checklists & Templates → ready-to-use templates

## Local preview
```bash
python3 -m pip install --upgrade mkdocs mkdocs-material
mkdocs serve
```

Commit message:

Add CITATION.cff, Releases checklist, homepage citation/DOI badge, and nav link

docs/index.md, after:

# GCE Sustainable Code & Data Handbook

Practical guidance for sustainable research code and FAIR, reusable data in the GCE community.

- Read online: https://globalchangeecology.github.io/gce-sustainable-code-and-data-handbook/
- Source on GitHub: https://github.com/GlobalChangeEcology/gce-sustainable-code-and-data-handbook


<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   :material-compass-outline: **Start Here**
    
    ---
    Quick orientation for newcomers to the handbook.
    
    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Open Start Here](START_HERE.md)

-   :material-flowchart: **Decision Guide**
    
    ---
    Flowchart to choose tools, pipelines, and repositories.
    
    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Open Decision Guide](DECISION_GUIDE.md)

-   :material-notebook-edit: **Handbook**
    
    ---
    Full chapters covering policy, metadata, quality, publishing, and more.
    
    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Browse Handbook](manual/01_POLICY_AND_PRINCIPLES.md)

-   :material-flask-outline: **Examples**
    
    ---
    Minimal project with tiny CSV and Python/R scripts.
    
    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: See Example](examples/minimal-project/README.md)

</div>

## Citation
If you use this handbook, please cite it.

[View CITATION.cff](https://github.com/GlobalChangeEcology/gce-sustainable-code-and-data-handbook/blob/main/CITATION.cff)

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.TBD.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.TBD)

## Start here
- Policy & Principles → goals, scope, roles
- Project Setup → folders, naming, onboarding checklist
- Software Practices → version control, tests, docs, environments
- Data Lifecycle → collection → cleaning → analysis → publication
- Checklists & Templates → ready-to-use templates

## Local preview
```bash
python3 -m pip install --upgrade mkdocs mkdocs-material
mkdocs serve
```
